npm install express mongoose socket.io redis firebase-admin twilio

These packages are used for the following purposes:
express: Web framework for Node.js.
mongoose: MongoDB object modeling for Node.js.
socket.io: Real-time bidirectional event-based communication.
redis: Redis client for Node.js (used for Pub/Sub).
firebase-admin: Admin SDK for Firebase (for push notifications).
twilio: Twilio API client for sending SMS.

npm install @types/express @types/mongoose @types/socket.io @types/redis typescript ts-node ts-node-dev

These packages are used for:
@types/express: Type definitions for Express.js.
@types/mongoose: Type definitions for Mongoose.
@types/socket.io: Type definitions for Socket.IO.
@types/redis: Type definitions for Redis client.
typescript: TypeScript compiler.
ts-node: TypeScript execution engine for Node.js.
ts-node-dev: TypeScript hot-reloading tool for development.

npm install -g typescript

Install TypeScript (if not installed globally)
If you don't have TypeScript installed globally, you can install it with:

Let's break down the requirements you provided and verify if the code meets all the necessary features for the delivery service part.

Your Requirements:
Delivery Assignment Functions:

Find Available Drivers based on proximity and availability.

Assign Delivery Request to nearby drivers.

Auto-Reassign Order if the first driver declines or is unavailable.

Send Order Details to Driver (Pickup location, restaurant details, order ID).

Update Order Status to "Driver Assigned".

✅ Code Implementation:

In the code, the function createDeliveryRequest is responsible for finding nearby drivers (mocked mockGeoNearbyDrivers function simulates this) and sending notifications to all available drivers via the mockSendNotification function.

The driver assignment happens when a driver accepts the delivery in the acceptDelivery function.

For the Driver:

Accept or Reject Delivery Request.

View Order Details (Pickup & Drop-off info).

Navigate to Pickup Location (Restaurant).

Contact Restaurant (In case of special instructions).

✅ Code Implementation:

Accept/Reject Delivery: This is handled by the endpoint /accept with the acceptDelivery function.

Order Details: The driver receives the order information via notifications when the order is assigned.

Order Pickup Functions:

Mark Order as "Picked Up".

Scan QR Code or Enter Pickup Code (For verification).

Contact Customer (In case of special instructions).

✅ Code Implementation:

The order status is updated to "picked_up" in the updateDeliveryStatus function with the OTP passed in the request.

Special instructions are not implemented but can be added to the orderDetails mock data for future use.

Order Delivery Functions:

Navigate to Customer’s Location (Google Maps API, Waze).

Real-Time Traffic Updates & Route Optimization.

Contact Customer (Call or Chat).

Mark Order as "Delivered".

Take Proof of Delivery (Photo, Signature, or OTP).

✅ Code Implementation:

Navigate to Customer: This can be integrated with real GPS/Map APIs later.

Proof of Delivery: The proof_of_delivery field is handled in updateDeliveryStatus when the order is marked as delivered.

Contact Customer: Not implemented yet, but mockable with external services like Twilio.

Payment & Earnings Management:

View Earnings & Completed Deliveries.

Request Payout (Bank Transfer, Digital Wallet).

View Bonuses & Incentives.

❌ Code Implementation:

Payment Processing: This is not implemented in the provided code since the payment-service is supposed to be handled by a separate service.

Earnings & Bonuses: Could be added later, especially integrating with user-service for driver-related earnings.

Ratings, Reviews & Feedback:

Rate the Delivery Experience.

Leave a Review for the Driver.

Report Issues (Late Delivery, Missing Items).

Rate the Customer.

Provide Feedback on the Restaurant.

✅ Code Implementation:

Rating & Review: The provided code can handle driver reviews using the submitReview endpoint, although customer reviews can be implemented in the future.

Issues: Could be tracked by adding an issue_reported field to the Review model.

Mock Data for Missing Services:
Order-service: The mock function mockOrderDetails provides mock order details, including pickup and dropoff locations.

Geo-location service: mockGeoNearbyDrivers returns mock data for available drivers based on proximity.

Payment-service: Not implemented in the provided code. Could be replaced with mock functions later.

Notification-service: mockSendNotification sends notifications (simulated via console logs).

User-service: Mocked delivery person information and association with orders.

What’s Missing from the Current Code?
Auto-Reassign Order: The code does not handle automatic reassignments if the driver rejects or is unavailable. You can implement this by adding a "retry" mechanism or a queue system that attempts to reassign the order to another driver.

Contact Restaurant & Customer: External integrations like Twilio or Email APIs for contacting customers or restaurants would need to be added later.

Live GPS Tracking: Real-time tracking can be added using APIs like Google Maps API, Waze, or Mapbox. You can then share the coordinates with the customer.

Payment & Earnings: The actual payment processing and earnings calculation are dependent on the payment-service which is not part of this code.

Scan QR Code/OTP for Pickup: QR code scanning functionality can be integrated with libraries like qrcode or external services.

Advanced Rating & Review System: You can expand the review system by adding additional fields for customer feedback and issues.

Final Thoughts:
The code covers the core delivery management features, including:

Delivery assignment and status updates

Driver notifications

Order tracking (mocked)

Driver reviews

The other services such as Payment, Live tracking, and Contacting the restaurant/customer will require integration with their respective services or APIs, which can be implemented when those services are ready.

You can proceed to implement and test the delivery part using Postman and mock data.

Let me know if you'd like further enhancements, or if you want to integrate the missing services!